--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quotes:

“The Dark Arts,” said Snape, “are many, varied, ever-changing, and eternal.
Fighting them is like fighting a many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is
severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than before. You are fighting
that which is unfixed, mutating, indestructible.”...
“Your defenses,” said Snape, a little louder, “must therefore be as flexible and
inventive as the arts you seek to undo." 
- J. K. Rowling, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince (think of computer security...)

"...you have to recognize that if you are trying to eliminate all risks from your
life - what you are actually doing is eliminating all possibility from your life."
- Edward Snowden

"John is a man of focus, commitment, and sheer will." - John Wick

"Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better."
- Samuel Beckett (Worstward Ho)

"When someone failed, another has succeeded; what was unknown in one century,
the next has discovered; science and the arts do not grind themselves into
uniformity, but gain shape and regularity by carving and polishing repeatedly...
What my own strength has not been able to uncover, I cease not from working at
and trying out and, by reshaping and solidifying this new material, in moulding
and heating it, I bequeathe to him who follows some facility and make it the
more supple and malleable for him. The second will do the same for the third,
which is why difficulty does not make me despair, nor of my own weakness..."
- Montaigne, Les Essais, Livre II, Chapitre XII

"When I was a young man, I had liberty, but I did not see it. I had time, but I
did not know it. And I had love, but I did not feel it. Many decades would pass
before I understood the meaning of all three. And now, the twilight of my life,
this understanding has passed into contentment. Love, liberty, and time: once so
disposable, are the fuels that drive me forward. And love, most especially, mio
caro. For you, our children, our brothers and sisters. And for the vast and
wonderful world that gave us life, and keeps us guessing. Endless affection, mia
Sofia. Forever yours, Ezio Auditore." - Ezio Auditore (Assassins Creed II)

"An engineer must know everything about something and something about
everything." - Ashwin Kallaje

“We can know only that we know nothing.
And that is the highest degree of human wisdom.”- Leo Tolstoy (War and Peace)

"I feel I'm flying headlong into some abyss,
but I mustn't try to save myself. And I can't."- Leo Tolstoy (Anna Karenina)

"It showed him the eternal error people make in imagining that happiness is the
realization of desires."- Leo Tolstoy (Anna Karenina)

"Imagine the government passed a law requiring all citizens to carry a tracking
device. Such a law would immediately be found unconstitutional.
Yet we all carry mobile phones."- Bruce Schneier

"Where did I take it from? Was it through reason that I arrived at the necessity
of loving my neighbour and not throttling him? I was told it as a child, and I
joyfully believed it, because they told me what was in my soul.
And who discovered it? Not reason. Reason discovered the struggle for existence
and the law which demands that everyone who hinders the satisfaction of my
desires should be throttled. That is the conclusion of reason.
Reason could not discover love for the other,
because it’s unreasonable." - Leo Tolstoy (Anna Karenina)

"In place of each of the Church’s beliefs there could be put the belief in
serving the good instead of one’s needs. And each of them not only did not
violate it but was indispensable for the accomplishment of that chief miracle,
constantly manifested on earth, which consists in it being possible for each
person, along with millions of the most diverse people, sages and holy fools,
children and old men – along with everyone, with some peasant, with Lvov,
with Kitty, with beggars and kings – to understand one and the same thing with
certainty and to compose that life of the soul which alone makes life worth
living and alone is what we value." - Leo Tolstoy (Anna Karenina)

"This new feeling hasn’t changed me, hasn’t made me happy or suddenly
enlightened, as I dreamed – just like the feeling for my son. Nor was there any
surprise. And faith or not faith – I don’t know what it is – but this feeling
has entered into me just as imperceptibly through suffering and has firmly
lodged itself in my soul.

I’ll get angry in the same way with the coachman Ivan, argue in the same way,
speak my mind inappropriately, there will be the same wall between my soul’s
holy of holies and other people, even my wife, I’ll accuse her in the same way
of my own fear and then regret it, I’ll fail in the same way to understand with
my reason why I pray, and yet I will pray – but my life now, my whole life,
regardless of all that may happen to me, every minute of it, is not only not
meaningless, as it was before, but has the unquestionable meaning of the good
which it is in my power to put into it!" - Leo Tolstoy (Anna Karenina ending)

"If we are to live, we must take risks. Else our lives become deaths in all but
name. There is no struggle too vast, no odds too overwhelming, for even if we
fail, should we fall - we will know that we have lived."
- Steven Erikson (Toll the Hounds)

“We humans do not understand compassion. In each moment of our lives, we betray
it. Aye, we know of its worth, yet in knowing we then attach to it a value, we
guard the giving of it, believing it must be earned, T’lan Imass. Compassion is
priceless in the truest sense of the wold. It must be given freely. In
abundance.”
- Steven Erikson (Memories of Ice)

“The more civilized a nation, the more conformed its population, until that
civilization's last age arrives, when multiplicity wages war with conformity.
The former grows ever wilder, ever more dysfunctional in its extremities;
whilst the latter seeks to increase its measure of control, until such efforts
acquire diabolical tyranny."
- Steven Erikson (Toll the Hounds)

"As they walked, Tehol spoke '... the assumption is the foundation stone of
Letherii society, perhaps all societies the world over. The notion of inequity,
my friends. For from inequity derives the concept of value, whether measured by
money or the countless other means of gauging human worth. Simply put, there
resides in all of us the un-challenged belief that the poor and the starving are
in some way deserving of their fate. In other words, there will always be poor
people. A truism to grant structure to the continual task of comparison, the
establishment through observation of not our mutual similarities, but our
essential differences.

'I know what you're thinking, to which I have no choice but to challenge you
both. Like this. Imagine walking down this street, doling out coins by the
thousands. Until everyone here is in possession of vast wealth. A solution? No,
you say, because among these suddenly rich folk there will be perhaps a majority
who will prove wasteful, profligate, and foolish, and before long they will be
poor once again. Besides, if wealth were distributed in such a fashion, the
coins themselves would lose all value - they would cease being useful. And
without such utility, the entire social structure we love so dearly would
collapse.

'Ah, but to that I say, so what? There are other ways of measuring self-worth.
To which you both heatedly reply: with no value applicable to labour, all sense
of worth vanishes! And in answer to that I simply smile and shake my head.
Labour and its product become the negotiable commodities. But wait, you object,
then value sneaks in after all! Because a man who makes bricks cannot be equated
with, say, a man who paints portraits. Material is inherently value-laden, on
the basis of our need to assert comparison - but ah, was I not challenging the
very assumption that one must proceed with such intricate structures of value?

'And so you ask, what's your point, Tehol? To which I reply with a shrug. Did I
say my discourse was a valuable means of using this time? I did not. No, you
assumed it was. Thus proving my point!"
- Steven Erikson (Midnight Tides)

“There is something profoundly cynical, my friends, in the notion of paradise
after death. The lure is evasion. The promise is excusative. One need not accept
responsibility for the world as it is, and by extension, one need do nothing
about it. To strive for change, for true goodness in this mortal world, one must
acknowledge and accept, within one's own soul, that this mortal reality has
purpose in itself, that its greatest value is not for us, but for our children
and their children. To view life as but a quick passage alone a foul, tortured
path – made foul and tortured by our own indifference – is to excuse all manner
of misery and depravity, and to exact cruel punishment upon the innocent lives
to come.

I defy this notion of paradise beyond the gates of bone. If the soul truly
survives the passage, then it behooves us – each of us, my friends – to nurture
a faith in similitude: what awaits us is a reflection of what we leave behind,
and in the squandering of our mortal existence, we surrender the opportunity to
learn the ways of goodness, the practice of sympathy, empathy, compassion and
healing – all passed by in our rush to arrive at a place of glory and beauty, a
place we did not earn, and most certainly do not deserve.”
- Steven Erikson (The Bonehunters)

"Discipline is the greatest weapon against the self-righteous.  We must measure
the virtue of our own controlled response when answering the atrocities of
fanatics.  And yet, let it not be claimed, in our own oratory of piety, that we
are without our own fanatics; for the self-righteous breed wherever tradition
holds, and most often when there exists the perception that tradition is under
assault.  Fanatics can be created as easily in an environment of moral decay
(whether real or imagined) as in an environment of legitimate inequity or under
the banner of common cause.  Discipline is as much facing the enemy within as
the enemy before you; for without critical judgement, the weapon you wield
delivers – and let us not be coy here – naught but murder. And its first victim
is the moral probity of your cause."
- Steven Erikson (The Bonehunters)

"Against a broken heart, even absurdity falters.
Because words fall away.
A dialogue of silence.
That deafens." - Blind Gallan (Steven Erikson, The Crippled God)

"The wounded will wound
and every hurt is remembered." - Blind Gallan (Steven Erikson, ???)

"Open to them your hand to the shore, watch them walk into the sea.
Press upon them all they need, see them yearn for all they want.
Gift to them the calm pool of words, watch them draw the sword.
Bless upon them the satiation of peace, see them starve for war.
Grant them darkness and they will lust for light.
Deliver to them death and hear them beg for life.
Beget life and they will murder your kin.
Be as they are and they see you different.
Show wisdom and you are a fool.
The shore gives way to the sea.
And the sea, my friends,
Does not dream of you." - Shake Prayer (Steven Erikson, Reaper's Gale)

Hertz did not realize the practical importance of his experiments.
He stated that,
"It's of no use whatsoever[...] this is just an experiment that
     proves Maestro Maxwell was right—we just have these
     mysterious electromagnetic waves that we cannot see with
     the naked eye. But they are there.“
Asked about the ramifications of his discoveries, Hertz replied,
"Nothing, I guess."                              - Wikipedia and refs. therein

Esplanade House, Bombay.
23rd Nov. 1898

Dear Swami Vivekananda,

I trust, you remember me as a fellow- traveller on your voyage from Japan to
Chicago. I very much recall at this moment your views on the growth of the
ascetic spirit in India, and the duty, not of destroying, but of diverting it
into useful channels.

I recall these ideas in connection with my scheme of Research Institute of
Science for India, of which you have doubtless heard or read. It seems to me
that no better use can be made of the ascetic spirit than the establishment of
monasteries or residential halls for men dominated by this spirit, where they
should live with ordinary decency and devote their lives to the cultivation of
sciences – natural and humanistic. I am of opinion that, if such a crusade in
favour of an asceticism of this kind were undertaken by a competent leader, it
would greatly help asceticism, science, and the good name of our common country;
and I know not who would make a more fitting general of such a campaign than
Vivekananda. Do you think you would care to apply yourself to the mission of
galvanizing into life our ancient traditions in this respect? Perhaps, you had
better begin with a fiery pamphlet rousing our people in this matter. I would
cheerfully defray all the expenses of publication.”

With kind regards, I am, dear Swami

Yours faithfully,
Jamshedji Tata

"The Western world is governed by a handful of Shylocks. All those things that
you hear about - constitutional government, freedom, liberty, and parliaments -
are but jokes." - Vivekananda

"Europe, the centre of the manifestation of material energy, will crumble into
dust within fifty years if she is not mindful to change her position, to shift
her ground and make spirituality the basis of her life. And what will save
Europe is the religion of the Upanishads." - Vivekananda
(written in 1900, e.g WWI, WWII)

"As long as a Hindu has anything in the house a guest must never want."
- Vivekananda (as quoted by Detroit Tribune Feb 15, 1894)

"Unselfish and genuine zeal for real scholarship and honest earnest thought must
again become dominant in the life of our countrymen if they are ever to rise to
occupy among nations a rank worthy of their own historic past." - Vivekananda

"Canada, the most affluent of countries, operates on a depletion economy which
leaves destruction in its wake. Your people are driven by a terrible sense of
deficiency. When the last tree is cut, the last fish is caught, and the last
river is polluted; when to breathe the air is sickening, you will realize, too
late, that wealth is not in bank accounts and that you can’t eat money." -
Alanis Obomsawin

"At this stage in history, either one of two things is possible. Either, the
general population will take control of its own destiny and will concern itself
with community interests guided by values of solidarity, and sympathy and
concern for others or alternatively there will be no destiny for anyone to
control." - Noam Chomsky

"Behind every theorem lies an inequality" - A N Kolmogorov

"Turning to the succor of modern computing machines, let us renounce all
analytic tools." - Richard Bellman, Dynamic Programming

"If Edison had a needle to find in a haystack, he would proceed at once with the
diligence of a bee to examine straw after straw until he found the object of his
search... I was a sorry witness of such doings, knowing that a little theory and
calculation would have saved him ninety percent of his labor." - Nikola Tesla

"Combinatorics is an honest subject. No adèles, no sigma-algebras. You count
balls in a box, and you either have the right number or you haven’t. You get the
feeling that the result you have discovered is forever, because it’s concrete.
Other branches of mathematics are not so clear-cut. Functional analysis of
infinite-dimensional spaces is never fully convincing; you don’t get a feeling
of having done an honest day’s work. Don’t get the wrong idea - combinatorics is
not just putting balls into boxes. Counting finite sets can be a highbrow
undertaking, with sophisticated techniques." - Gian Carlo Rota

"It's not mathematics that you need to contribute to. It's deeper than that: how
might you contribute to humanity, and even deeper, to the well-being of the
world, by pursuing mathematics? Such a question is not possible to answer in a
purely intellectual way, because the effects of our actions go far beyond our
understanding. We are deeply social and deeply instinctual animals, so much that
our well-being depends on many things we do that are hard to explain in an
intellectual way. That is why you do well to follow your heart and your passion.
Bare reason is likely to lead you astray. None of us are smart and wise enough
to figure it out intellectually.

The product of mathematics is clarity and understanding. Not theorems, by
themselves. Is there, for example any real reason that even such famous results
as Fermat's Last Theorem, or the Poincaré conjecture, really matter? Their real
importance is not in their specific statements, but their role in challenging
our understanding, presenting challenges that led to mathematical developments
that increased our understanding.

The world does not suffer from an oversupply of clarity and understanding
(to put it mildly). How and whether specific mathematics might lead to improving
the world (whatever that means) is usually impossible to tease out, but
mathematics collectively is extremely important.

I think of mathematics as having a large component of psychology, because of its
strong dependence on human minds. Dehumanized mathematics would be more like
computer code, which is very different. Mathematical ideas, even simple ideas,
are often hard to transplant from mind to mind. There are many ideas in
mathematics that may be hard to get, but are easy once you get them. Because of
this, mathematical understanding does not expand in a monotone direction. Our
understanding frequently deteriorates as well. There are several obvious
mechanisms of decay. The experts in a subject retire and die, or simply move on
to other subjects and forget. Mathematics is commonly explained and recorded in
symbolic and concrete forms that are easy to communicate, rather than in
conceptual forms that are easy to understand once communicated. Translation in
the direction conceptual -> concrete and symbolic is much easier than
translation in the reverse direction, and symbolic forms often replaces the
conceptual forms of understanding. And mathematical conventions and
taken-for-granted knowledge change, so older texts may become hard to
understand.

In short, mathematics only exists in a living community of mathematicians that
spreads understanding and breaths life into ideas both old and new. The real
satisfaction from mathematics is in learning from others and sharing with others.
All of us have clear understanding of a few things and murky concepts of many
more. There is no way to run out of ideas in need of clarification. The question
of who is the first person to ever set foot on some square meter of land is
really secondary. Revolutionary change does matter, but revolutions are few, and
they are not self-sustaining --- they depend very heavily on the community of
mathematicians." - William Thurston

This is the paradox of historical knowledge. Knowledge that does not change
behaviour is useless. But knowledge that changes behaviour quickly loses its
relevance." - Yuval Harari

"...We have to remember that the point of study is not to power, enable,
de-glitch, or otherwise save civilization. The point of study is to create a
civilisation worth saving." - Simon Ings, New Scientist 2017

"In fact, mathematics is, to a large extent, invention of better notations."
- Richard Feynman

"One of my Russian friends told me the biggest mystery in the world for them is:
How can Americans be such stupid people and yet have the best country on earth,
while Russians are so smart, and yet have such a terrible country?" - Quora

"FFmpeg = Fiendish Fabulous Most Pure Evangelical God" - Stefano Sabatini

"Complexity theory is the science of finding the exact solution to an
approximation. Benchmarking OTOH is finding an approximation of the exact"
- Michael Niedermayer

"Into a blind darkness they enter who follow after the Ignorance,
they as if into a greater darkness enter who devote themselves
to the Knowledge alone." - Isha Upanishad, paraphrased by Michael Niedermayer

"When the tyrant has disposed of foreign enemies by conquest or treaty, and
there is nothing more to fear from them, then he is always stirring up
some war or other, in order that the people may require a leader." - Plato,
from Michael Niedermayer

" Many things microsoft did are stupid, but not doing something just because
microsoft did it is even more stupid. If everything ms did were stupid they
would be bankrupt already." - Michael Niedermayer

"Good people do not need laws to tell them to act responsibly, while bad
people will find a way around the laws." - Plato, from Michael Niedermayer

"While the State exists there can be no freedom; when there is freedom there
will be no State." - Vladimir Lenin, from Michael Niedermayer

“The role of a magician is to make simple things appear mysterious.
The role of a teacher is to make mysterious things appear simple."
- Alan Oppenheim, 6.341x welcome message

“The purpose of a course is not to cover a topic but to uncover it."
- Alan Oppenheim, 6.341x welcome message

“The purpose of the course staff is to guide rather than drag students through
the topics." - Alan Oppenheim, 6.341x welcome message

"In multimedia, if there is a stupid way to do something, someone will do it
(badly) and complain until it is standard and supported." - Jean Baptiste Kempf,
Porting VLC on Android talk

“The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those
who have much it; is whether we provide enough for those who have little.”
- Franklin D. Roosevelt

“Work saves a man from three great evils: boredom, vice, and need.” - Voltaire

"What one wants is to be able to talk with a diverse club of smart
people, arrange to do short one-off research projects and
simulations, publish papers or capture intellectual property
quickly and easily, and move on to another
conversation. Quickly. Easily. For a living. Can’t do that in
industry. Can’t do that in the Academy. Yet in my experience,
scientists and engineers all want it. Maybe even a few
mathematicians and social scientists do, too."
- Bill Tozier,
[[http://williamtozier.com/slurry/2006/07/17/diverse-themes-observed-at-gecco-2006]
[Diverse themes observed at GECCO 2006]]

"If you pay a man a salary for doing research, he and you will want to have
something to point to at the end of the year to show that the money has not been
wasted. In promising work of the highest class, however, results do no come in
this regular fashion, in fact years may pass without any tangible result being
obtained, and the position of the paid worker would be very embarrassing and he
would naturally take to work on a lower, or at any rate a different plane where
he could be sure of getting year by year tangible results which would justify
his salary. The position is this: You want one kind of research, but, if you pay
a man to do it, it will drive him to research of a different kind. The only
thing to do is to pay him for doing something else and give him enough leisure
to do research for the love of it."
- J.J. Thomson
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
